Atruvia AG • Karlsruhe, Münster
Data Engineer (m/f/d) | DSIANA


Karlsruhe, Münster

immediately

We are the digitalization partner of the cooperative financial group, combining decades of banking expertise with state-of-the-art information technology. Our IT solutions and services, specifically tailored to banks, range from data center operations and the agree21 banking system to app development. As a German-speaking company, we utilize forward-looking technologies such as artificial intelligence and smart data, and we place great emphasis on process optimization, security, and regulatory compliance.

Our goal is to enable innovative digital banking and near-banking experiences for over 900 banks and more than 30 million bank customers. Therefore, we systematically invest in the expertise of our more than 5,500 employees and consider sustainability a strategic corporate objective.

Our collaborative model is characterized by an agile, cross-functional approach across all business units. We connect the people and markets of tomorrow – simply, digitally, and securely.

For our Data, Security & Identity business unit within the Analytics Tribe, we are looking for a Data Engineer (m/f/d) to join our team in Karlsruhe or Münster, either full-time or part-time (minimum 30 hours per week). Your role will be within the Data Ignite Squad, where you will collaborate with 8 colleagues across multiple locations and with various interfaces.



Tasks with perspectives


You will work in an agile team with true full-stack responsibility for the development, automation, and further development of a scalable data platform – based on a hybrid cloud architecture (on-premise & public cloud).

You are responsible for the stable provision and further development of our on-premises data infrastructure (S3, OpenShift, Docker, Airflow) as well as for the design of the cloud platform based on Databricks.

You develop and operate robust data pipelines for internal data supply – with a focus on tenant separation, governance, reproducibility and performance.

You will work closely with our customers and support them directly in projects on their own Databricks environment – from data integration and pipeline development to productive operation.

You actively contribute to the platform architecture and toolchain design – especially with regard to infrastructure automation (Terraform), monitoring and CI/CD processes.

You are part of an agile, interdisciplinary team and, together with our team and customers, you create sustainable, production-ready data solutions.


Personality with a profile


You have completed a relevant degree in (business) informatics, mathematics or comparable qualifications and bring several years of relevant experience in the field of data engineering

You have in-depth knowledge of Python as well as in the development and orchestration of data pipelines using, for example, Apache Airflow.

You have practical experience in containerized environments (Docker, OpenShift) and are confident in handling object-based storage (e.g., S3).

You are familiar with development on Databricks – including Delta Lake, Notebooks, MLflow, Unity Catalog – and are able to implement customer projects on their Databricks instance.

You have experience with cloud infrastructures (Azure/AWS/Google) and Infrastructure-as-Code (Terraform) as well as a good understanding of CI/CD and automated platform operation.

You are customer-oriented, have strong communication skills and a confident demeanor – even in consulting-related situations.

You are open to new technologies and have a strong willingness to continuously develop yourself.

You have fluent German skills (at least C1 level) as well as a) fluent English skills (C1) or b) good English skills (at least B2).

You work in a structured, independent and team-oriented manner – both within our team and in direct collaboration with customers.



Our advantages at a glance:
In addition to an attractive salary and 30 days of vacation, we offer you the following benefits:


Flexible working: We work in a balanced hybrid mix of remote work and presence in modern office environments (activity-based working).

Work-life balance: With our individual working time models such as part-time work, the option of full-time work between 30-40 hours and our lifetime working time account (sabbatical and/or leave of absence before retirement) you will find the right balance.

Balancing private life and career: We offer you a family budget and support in special family situations such as caring for family members.

Individual benefits: You have the choice between bike leasing, IT hardware leasing, employee savings plans and/or an additional day off, as well as company pension schemes and other options.

Onboarding: We welcome you to our welcome event #enter; you can also expect structured onboarding with a mentor and regular feedback sessions with your People Lead.

Health Management – Health, Family and Life: We support and guide you through our programs, including collaborations with the family cooperative and voiio. Enjoy a diverse range of meals in our company restaurants and connect with others through our sports activities.

Career model and further training: In our development dialogues you discuss your professional, methodological and personal career goals and pursue them using our diverse range of further training opportunities.

Our company values: Respectful, open and honest, responsible, supportive of one another and results-oriented – guided by team spirit and the desire for innovation and intensive knowledge exchange.

Future security and job security: As a cooperative company with decades of experience, we are pioneers of digital transformation in the banking world and a systemically important employer.

Kununu: We are a Top Company 2025 and proud of a Kununu score of 4.2 and a recommendation rate of ≥ 90%.



Please use our application portal exclusively for your application. We look forward to hearing from you.

Apply now!


#atruvia #it-jobs #wearehiring #LI-hybrid #LI-AT1 #Agile Software Development #Customer Focus #Innovative Thinking

Reference number: 1133

Contact person

Laura Dewald

Send an emailEmail copied!Copy email?

+49 1512 8063476
